---
title: "#035 Marketing Analytics - The Marketing Process"
date: 2024-07-28 00:00:00 +0800
categories: [Game Design, Notes]
tags: [Marketing]
math: true
---

## WHY?
there types:
- Descriptive: looking at the past: what happened?
- Predictive & Prescriptive: looking at what will happen, what will happen in AB testing

Marketing Analytics brings more money.

## UNDERSTAND MARKETING PROCESS
Start with **Objectives**
- customer
- company
- competitor
- collaborators
- context

to **Strategy**
- Segmentation
- Targeting
- Positioning

to **Tactics**
- Product
- Price
- Place
- Promotion

to **Financials**
- Margin
- ROI

> Return on investment (ROI) is a performance measure used to evaluate the efficiency or profitability.
>
> To calculate ROI, the benefit (or return) of an investment is divided by the cost of the investment. The result is expressed as a percentage or a ratio.
>
> $$
> \text{ROI} = \frac{\text{Current Value of Investment - Cost of Investment}}{\text{Cost of Investment}}
> $$

- CLV

> Customer lifetime value (CLV) is the total revenue or profit generated by a customer over the entire course of their relationship with your business.
>
> $$
> \text{Customer lifetime value} = \text{Number of purchases} * \text{Value of purchase} * \text{Average customer lifespan}
> $$


## AIRBNB MARKETING PROCESS
### Objectives
Airbnb is a home-sharing site that connects travelers with hosts who offer unique places to stay.

**Hot to improve customer experience?**
- Customer: you and me
- Company: Airbnb
    - capability: protal itself & allowing customer to look for places available on the portal
- Competitor: Hotels
    - feature
- Collaborators: You and me
- Cotext: Sharing Economy

### Strategy
#### Segmentation
the way to categorize customers & **their feature**

- Location
- Adventure
- Price
- Vacation
- Family
- Students

#### Targeting
looking at which segment to **focus on**

for example: *Family*

#### Positioning
what is the value proposions that Airbnb proposes for families?

> A value proposition in marketing is a concise statement of the benefits that a company is delivering to customers who buy its products or services.

value proposion -> customer's need

### Tactics
- Product: apartment...
- Price: ...
- Place: ...
- Promotion: reviews...

### Financials
how does Airbnb make money?

**Guests** -6-12% Reservation subtotal-> **Airbnb** <- 3% Service fee- **Host**

## AIRBNB STRATEGY CHALLENGE
- How do we improve the rental prospects for our hosts and identify better rental options for our guests?
    - How do we leverage the user generated content on our website?
    - Is there value in improving the pricing of properties?

### Solve it with Data
build a Mental Model

Predictive Model:
$$
\text{Profit Per Property} = \text{Price} * \text{Num of Rentals} * \text{Minimum Stay} * \text{Gross Margin(\%)}
$$

**Num of Rentals**
- Star Rating
- Review
- Property Attributes

**Reviews**
> Text Analytics: special software + keyword(**property**)
> maybe AI?

finally get a number *R* and plug it into predictive model.

the rest

and finally know what element decides the wishlist num.

### Insights Gained
different region -> different elements -> **Regional Strategy**

## TAKEAWAYS
- Marketing is art and scenice.
- Analytics provides marketing managers the opportunity to test intuition about marketing.
- Insights from analytics can challenge widely held assumptions.
- Confidence in decisions that flow out of marketing process is higher when it is informed by analytics.
